#summary SPI Interface and Abstraction Layer
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Introduction =

The SPI interface is implemented in the file `dogmspi.c`. This file can 
be replaced with any other file as long as the six functions below are implemented.
See the template file [spiapi#Template below] or [http://code.google.com/p/dogm128/source/browse/tools/spi_interface/dogmspi.c here].

= Functions =

== `dog_spi_init` ==
  Setup the SPI interface: Setup I/O lines and directions, prepare SPI subsystem.
 * Prototype
{{{
void dog_spi_init(void)
}}}

== `dog_spi_out` ==
  Output value via SPI.
 * Prototype
{{{
unsigned char dog_spi_out(unsigned char data)
}}}
 * Arguments
  * `data`: Value, which should be sent via SPI bus.


== `dog_spi_enable_client` ==
 Enable the display: Send low on the chip select line.
 * Prototype
{{{
void dog_spi_enable_client(void)
}}}
== `dog_spi_disable_client` ==
 Disable the display: Send high on the chip select line.
 * Prototype
{{{
void dog_spi_disable_client(void)
}}}
== `dog_cmd_mode` ==
 Enter command mode: Send low on A0 line.
 * Prototype
{{{
void dog_cmd_mode(void)
}}}
== `dog_data_mode` ==
 Enter data mode: Send high on A0 line.
 * Prototype
{{{
void dog_data_mode(void)
}}}


= Variables =

== `dog_spi_pin_a0` ==
 The value for this variable can be set through the user-API. 
 In the Arduino Environment this variable contains the pin
 number which is connected to the A0 line of the display hardware.

 * Declaration
{{{
extern uint8_t dog_spi_pin_a0;
}}}

== `dog_spi_pin_cs` ==
 The value for this variable can be set through the user-API. 
 In the Arduino Environment this variable contains the pin
 number which is connected to the chip select line of the display hardware.

 * Declaration
{{{
extern uint8_t dog_spi_pin_cs;
}}}

= Template =

{{{
#include "dogm128.h"

/* setup hardware pins, prepare SPI subsystem */
void dog_spi_init(void)
{
}

/* output a 8 bit value on the SPI bus */
unsigned char dog_spi_out(unsigned char data)
{
}

/* assign low to chip select line */
void dog_spi_enable_client(void)
{
}

/* assign high to chip select line */
void dog_spi_disable_client(void)
{
}

/* assign low to A0 line */
void dog_cmd_mode(void)
{
}

/* assign high to A0 line */
void dog_data_mode(void)
{
}

}}}